> [!CAUTION]
> This document is still in draft status.

# Contributing to Newsmast

## How Can I Contribute?

We welcome contributions from the community in the form of code and/or documentation. If you would like to get started, but not sure where, you might look through the existing list of issues & PRs to get a feel for how the project is run. You could also engage in a cursory review of the codebase & documentation in the repository, so you have a general idea of how the software is put together before engaging with your specific feature idea or bugfix.

All contributors to Newsmast are subject to the guidelines & rules as described in CODE_OF_CONDUCT.

### Reporting Bugs

We use GitHub Issues to track and address bug reports. Please describe in as much detail as possible the set of circumstates which led to you problems you ran into, and any other context which might be helpful in us tracking down the root cause (versions, hosting environment, OS, etc.)

### Security Issues

Please review our reporting guidelines in SECURITY.

### Suggesting Enhancements

Before working on a new feature or substaintial code change, it's best to ask about your idea in GitHub Discussions. Members of the Core Team and the community at large can workshop the concept and come up with a clear sense of what makes sense to build. Pull Requests unrelated to any existing discussion or issue are less likely to be received with immediate consideration or may be closed outright.

### Pull Requests

Once you have a clear idea of what to work on and it has bearing on a discussion or issue being tracked, you're ready to roll up your sleeves and get to work! To submit a pull request, first fork the repo on GitHub and create a new branch off main. Make your changes and push those commits up to the branch, then on GitHub you can create a new Pull Request to propose the branch be merged to main.

Remember, even if your Pull Request is fit to purpose, project maintainers reserve the right to close the PR without merge if ultimately it doesn't align with the larger goals of the project. Don't get discouraged! The knowledge you gained from the work will help shape future ideas & contributions.

### Documentation

## AI-generated Code Policy

Due to ethical, legal, and quality concerns, this project does not allow contributions generated by large languages models (LLMs) including, but not limited to, code, documentation, issues, and artworks. An exception applies for purely translating texts for Issues, Discussions, and their comments to English.

If you're unsure whether potential use of an LLM for personal use in research or prototyping would run up again this policy at you work on a project contribution, please ask for further clarity in the discussion about your feature idea or documentation effort.

## Releasing

Due to Newsmast's tight integration with Mastodon, we work diligentliy to ensure Mastodon updates are supported by Newsmast within a reasonable timeframe.
We aim for 2 weeks after the first significant Mastodon beta is released to release a new beta version of Newsmast, and 5 business days after the Mastodon production release for our production release.

Issues & bug reports specifically related to Mastodon upgrades are tagged "mastodon" on GitHub and are given high priority.

We pledge to support the current & previous minor versions of Mastodon (for example, at the time of this writing, that's 4.5 & 4.4). If you require specific support for a previous version, please contact Newsmast Foundation.
